-I'm going after the
President's tax returns.
I think they're critical.
-We really need to see
those tax returns.
-People are gonna care.
They want to know if
their President is a tax cheat.
-We think that it will show us
some connection
of what do the Russians
have on Donald Trump.
-For decades,
presidential candidates
have released
their tax returns.
And for years, President Trump
told voters
he would do the same.
-Maybe I'm gonna do
the tax returns
when Obama does
his birth certificate.
If I decide to run for office,
I'll produce my tax returns.
-What is your tax rate?
-It's none of your business.
You'll see it when I release.
At the appropriate time,
I will release them.
I mean, I became president.
No, I don't think
they care at all.
-Now with Democrats in control
of the House,
lawmakers are poised to seek
the President's tax returns.
-We're keeping close to the vest
when we're gonna do this
and how we're gonna do this
for obvious reasons.
But leadership agrees that this
should be one of our priorities.
-New Jersey Democrat Bill
Pascrell sits on the House Ways
and Means committee,
one of three committees
with the ability to request
Trump's returns from
the Secretary of the Treasury.
-Every citizen has a right
to know
if the President of the United
States is challenged ethically.
-Since February 2017,
House Democrats have made
17 attempts to request
to release Trump's tax returns.
All were shot down
by House Republicans.
-Supporting this resolution
would be
a clear invasion of privacy.
I would ask that all of our
committee members
to take a step back for a moment
and consider
the dangerous precedent of abuse
that would be set
by this resolution.
This is a very important
piece of legislation.
If this legislation we do not
follow up on,
then we are surrendering to the
Executive branch of government.
-Democrats plan to use a little
known 1924 provision
in the federal tax code
to request
the President's tax returns.
The provision was added
during the Teapot Dome scandal
that led to the first
Cabinet official
sentenced to prison
for bribery and conspiracy
involving the leasing
of public oil fields.
-The law does authorize
two specific rights
to the tax committees.
They can obtain
anyone's tax-return information
by requesting it from
the Secretary of the Treasury,
and they have the right
to submit
any of the information
obtained to the full House,
the full Senate for possible
disclosure to the public.
-Over 40 years ago,
Congress cited this provision
when it released
President Nixon's tax returns.
The IRS ultimately ordered Nixon
to pay over $400,000
in back taxes.
-I welcome this
kind of examination
because people have got to know
whether or not their president
is a crook.
Well, I'm not a crook.
I've earned everything I've got.
-The demand to see the tax
returns
of presidential candidates
really does grow out
of Richard Nixon's
presidency.
Jimmy Carter ended up having
to put a lot of his money
from the peanut farm business
in a blind trust.
George W Bush,
who it was revealed
had really immense wealth,
lived with that revelation
through the tax returns.
And Romney's where we start
to see some kind of a push-back.
-You know, I don't know
how many years I'll release.
I'll take a look at what
our documents are.
-The norm was established
because of Richard Nixon.
And, so, every candidate feared
if you didn't do this
that it would be
devastating politically.
Voters wouldn't trust
the candidate,
and the press would assume that
the candidate was hiding things.
So, Romney tests
that assumption,
he ends up releasing
some material,
and then Trump
altogether abandons it.
-Do you believe voters have
a right to see your tax returns
before they make
a final decision?
-I don't think they do.
But I do say this.
I will really gladly give them.
You're not gonna learn anything.
-It's pretty clear you can learn
a lot through tax returns.
It's not everything.
But it gives us some guide
as to the wealth of a candidate,
how they make their money,
and if there is
or is not a problem,
at least with current
investments and revenue,
with the job that they hold.
-Democrats acknowledge acquiring
Trump's taxes
could be a drawn-out process.
-I think it's a little
more challenging
than you might think.
-The chairman has, you know,
the right to ask
for those returns.
And the President may feel
that there's no law
which forces him to do that.
And then we'll see.
We'll go to the courts.
-If they start
investigating you,
that you can play
and investigate them?
-Better than them.
-Can you compartmentalize that?
-And I think I know
more than they know.
If they do that, then it's just
all it is a war-like posture.